Erectile dysfunction agents work by increasing blood flow
in arteries that support smooth muscle.
As a result of sexual stimulation,
the body releases a substance that directs proteins to relax blood vessels.
Relaxation of the vessels in the Corpora Cavernosa
improves blood flow and causes the tissue to swell.
Relaxed blood vessels with increased blood flow
allow the penis to stay erect during sexual stimulation.
When sexual stimulation stops,
the body uses an enzyme,
phosphodiesterase or PDE,
to reduce swelling by breaking down the proteins.
This helps to relax smooth muscle
and restore normal blood flow.
One group of erectile dysfunction agents
is PDE-5 inhibitors.
PDE-5 inhibitors work by stopping protein breakdown.
Relief from the protein breakdown helps maintain muscle stimulation
which can result in a longer lasting erection.